# Rikkss's Dotfiles

Welcome to my dotfiles config! Here you can find all of my dotfiles, which I use to configure my system. The goal of this repository is to both sync a lot of changes between my devices, and to speed up the setup process of my devices.

## Structure
Folders contain dotfiles pertaining to specific applications. Many of these are custom themes generated by Noctalia to fit together with the overall [Everforest color scheme](https://everforest.vercel.app/).

Some of the Noctalia-generated themes have small fixes to make them fit together better with Everforest color scheme. As matugen isn't perfect, it sometimes generates the themes incorrectly, requiring manual intervention. Currently only Vesktop and Steam skins have been modified.

## Installation
Currently you need to copy-paste the dotfiles into correct locations by hand. A more comprehensive setup script is under construction, which can be used to quickly set up the whole system with minimal manual work.

### Automatic Installation
Currently the installer is in the works, so automatic installation is not supported.

### Manual Installation Steps
1. Install `niri`.
2. Install `noctalia` by following its [installation guide](https://docs.noctalia.dev/v4/getting-started/installation/)
3. Install `sddm` and enable it by running `systemctl enable sddm`.
4. Log into your account
5. Go to Noctalia's **Settings>Color Scheme**, scroll down and click **Download More**. Find `Everforest` color theme and download and apply it
6. Install prerequisites for GTK and Qt themes `adw-gtk-theme`, `nwg-look`, `qt6ct`, `qt5ct`.
7. Open `nwg-look` and go to **Preferences** tab, and untick `~/.config/gtk-4.0/*`. Also click the Clear button next to it.
8. Insert the following into `~/.config/niri/config.kdl`:
```
environment {
  QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME "qt6ct"
}
```
7. Go to Noctalia's **Settings>Color Scheme>Templates** and enable **GTK**, **Qt** and **Niri**. These generate GTK and Qt themes for apps based on those. 
8. Enable `adw-gtk3-dark` in `nwg-look`.
9. Open `qt6ct`, and go to **Color Scheme** tab. Select `noctalia` and click **Apply** and **OK**.
10. Install some [Nerd Fonts](https://www.nerdfonts.com/).
10. Just to make sure all settings apply, restart your computer.

From here on follow the following steps for the rest of the applications, while in the root of this folder.

#### Dolphin
`cp dolphin/dolphinrc ~/.config/`

This ensures that the Qt theme applies to Dolphin.

#### Kitty
1. Install `kitty`.
2. Run the following command:
```bash
mv ~/.config/kitty/kitty.conf ~/.config/kitty/kitty.conf.bkp # Backups the current kitty configuration
cp kitty/kitty.conf ~/.config/kitty/`
```
#### Zsh & Starship
1. Install `zsh`.
2. Install `oh-my-zsh` by running `sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"`
3. Install `starship` by following its [installation guide](https://starship.rs/guide/)
3. Run the following commands:
```bash
mv ~/.zshrc ~/.zshrc.bkp # Backups the current zsh configuration
cp zsh/zshrc ~/.zshrc
mv ~/.config/starship.toml ~/.config/starship.toml.bkp # Backups the current starship configuration
cp starship/starship.toml ~/.config/
```

If `zsh` or `oh-my-zsh` ask you to configure anything, make sure you skip that part, as otherwise it might overwrite the configuration.

#### Steam w/ Millenium
This configuration contains small fixes to the Steam theme generated by Noctalia.

1. Follow [Noctalia's guide on theming Steam](https://docs.noctalia.dev/v4/theming/program-specific/steam/) to ensure, that necessary files are present.
2. Uncheck **Steam** from **Noctalia's Settings>Color Scheme>Templates** (prevents Niri from overwriting the modifications).
3. Run the following commands:
```bash
mv ~/.local/share/Steam/steamui/skins/Material-Theme/css/main/colors/matugen.css ~/.local/share/Steam/steamui/skins/Material-Theme/css/main/colors/matugen.css.bkp # Backups the old matugen file for Steam
cp steam/matugen.css ~/.local/share/Steam/steamui/skins/Material-Theme/css/main/colors/
```

#### Vesktop (and other Discord versions)
This configuration contains small fixes to the Discord theme generated by Noctalia. 

1. Install `vesktop` by following its [installation guide](https://vesktop.dev/install/).
2. Follow [Noctalia's guide to theming Discord](https://docs.noctalia.dev/v4/theming/program-specific/discord/) to ensure that all required files are present. 
3. Uncheck **Discord** from **Noctalia's Settings>Color Scheme>Templates** (prevents Niri from overwriting the modifications).
4. Choose **Noctalia Midnight** as your Discord theme.
5. Run the following commands (replace `vesktop` with the respective Discord client's config folder):
```bash
mv ~/.config/vesktop/themes/noctalia.theme.css ~/.config/vesktop/themes/noctalia.theme.css.bkp # Backups the generated Noctalia theme
cp vesktop/noctalia.theme.css ~/.config/vesktop/themes/
```


